Updating the FAQ (#564)
deltachat/deltachat-pages: en/help.md

- Messages from contacts **contacted by you**
- **Replies** to messages sent by you

Messages from others appear as a **contact request**. You need to accept the
request before you can reply. You can also decline it if you don't want to chat
with them for now.

E-mails which were not sent with Delta Chat don't appear in your app by
default. In the "Chats & Media" settings, you can make Delta Chat show either

> all e-mails or only those by accepted contacts.

Reviewer: The whole FAQ entry isn't up-to-date anymore. Maybe sth. like:

```markdown
By default, Delta Chat shows:

- Messages sent by other Delta Chat users
- Replies to your Delta Chat messages.

Other e-mails don't appear in your app by default. At "Settings / Chats & Media / Show Classic E-Mails", you can change this:
- "All": Delta Chat shows all e-mails that are sent to your email address.
- "For accepted contacts": Delta Chat shows all e-mails from contacts with whom you already have a chat, but new chats only pop up for Delta Chat messages.
- "No, chats only": Only messages sent by other Delta Chat users and replies to your Delta Chat messages are shown.

Regardless of this settings, messages from unknown contacts appear as a **request**. You need to accept the
request before you can reply. You can also decline it if you don't want to chat
with them for now.
```

WRT "contact request": I think we just call them "request" everywhere in the app now.

BTW, the "Settings / Chats & Media / Show Classic E-Mails" format doesn't seem intuitive to me, I would have used "Settings -> Chats & Media -> Show Classic E-Mails"; do others agree? In this case, we should change this in the whole document.

Reviewer: ping @gerryfrancis

Author: Sounds good. What about this?

```
By default, Delta Chat shows:

- Messages sent by other Delta Chat users
- Replies to your Delta Chat messages, even if they are "normal e-mails".

Other e-mails don't appear in your app by default. At "Settings / Chats & Media / Show Classic E-Mails", you can change this. You have these options:
- "No, chats only": Only messages sent by other Delta Chat users and replies to your Delta Chat messages are shown. This makes most sense if you use the same e-mail account for normal e-mails as well. This is the default setting.
- "All": Delta Chat shows all e-mails that are sent to your email address. This makes sense if you want to use Delta Chat for all your e-mails.
- "For accepted contacts": Delta Chat shows all e-mails from contacts with whom you already have a chat, but new chats only pop up for Delta Chat messages. This helps to decide on a case-by-case basis whether you want to have a conversation in Delta Chat or in "normal" e-mail apps.

If a message comes from an unknown contact, it appears as a **request**. You need to accept the
request before you can reply. You can also decline it if you don't want to chat
with them for now. (If it wasn't sent with Delta Chat, it only appears as a request if you have "Show Classic E-Mails" set to "All".)
```

I wonder if the last paragraph could be reordered so it would be at the top?

Reviewer: Not sure about the re-ordering of the options (because you put "No, chats only" to the top): They appear in the ordering I used in the app. Also, I'd like to have "For accepted contacts" in the middle, since it's the middle option (like, a compromise between the other two).

> This makes most sense if you use the same e-mail account for normal e-mails as well.

If you don't use the same e-mail account for normal e-mails, this setting doesn't matter that much, so, I'd question this

>  This makes sense if you want to use Delta Chat for all your e-mails.

:+1:

> I wonder if the last paragraph could be reordered so it would be at the top?

Thinking about it, it should get its own FAQ entry. It doesn't really have anything to do with "Which messages appear in Delta Chat?".

Author: > Not sure about the re-ordering of the options (because you put "No, chats only" to the top): They appear in the ordering I used in the app. Also, I'd like to have "For accepted contacts" in the middle, since it's the middle option (like, a compromise between the other two).

That's why I put the other two options first, because a middle option is explained the easiest if you first explain the two extremes ;)

Author: >> This makes most sense if you use the same e-mail account for normal e-mails as well.
>
> If you don't use the same e-mail account for normal e-mails, this setting doesn't matter that much, so, I'd question this

I disagree :) Because you can not control which MUAs the others use. And if at some point others write to you with a non-delta-MUA, and you don't have another MUA to check your mails, you would miss this message.

Author: > Thinking about it, it should get its own FAQ entry. It doesn't really have anything to do with "Which messages appear in Delta Chat?".

I added a new FAQ entry :)

to mute a chat, use the chat's menu (Android/Desktop) or the chat's profile (iOS).

### What does the green dot mean?

- Since Delta Chat 1.34 you can sometimes see a "green dot" next to the avatar
  of a contact. It means they were "recently seen".
- In detail: it means, that in the last 10 minutes, Delta Chat has seen them:
  - either because they messaged you directly,
  - because they wrote something to a group you are both a member of,
  - because they sent you a read receipt for a message you wrote,
  - or because they sent data to your Delta Chat app by using a
    [private app](#private-apps--webxdc).

> 

Reviewer 2: maybe add a point that it is not a "realtime online status",  so that people find it searching the page for "online status"

  that a human has read or understood the message ;)

### What happens if I turn on "Delete old messages from server"?

- By default, Delta Chat stores all messages locally on your device. If you
  e.g. want to save storage space at your mail provider, you can choose to
  delete old messages automatically. They still remain on your device until you
  delete them there, too.

> - To turn it on, go to "delete old messages from server" in the "Chats & Media"

Reviewer 3: nictpicking: it is "Chats and Media" and we should also use the correct upper/lowercasing for the settings name.

If you want to use the **same account** on different devices, you should export
a backup from the old device, and import it into the new device:

> - On the old device, go to "Settings -> Chats and media -> Export Backup". Enter your

Reviewer 3: this was correct before, it is now wrong as on ios "Backup" is filed at top-level.

  connected with each other through a chain of invites, which guarantee 
  cryptographic consistency against active network or provider attacks. 
  See [countermitm.readthedocs.io](https://countermitm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/new.html)
  for the R&D behind this feature. 

- As of Dec 2019, a "verified group" remains an experimental feature.
  It is continuously improved and many bugs have been fixed since the
  original introduction in 2018.  However, there remain cases, especially 
  with large groups where inconsistencies can occur, or messages become 
  unreadable.

### What are Broadcast Lists and how can I use them?

- With a Broadcast List you can send a message to many recipents at once; when
  they reply to you, you get the reply in your direct 1:1 chat with them. The
  recipients can't see each other.
- Technically, it is an E-Mail with many recipients in BCC.
- You can turn on the feature in the "experimental features" section in the
  advanced settings. Then you can create a Broadcast List from the "New Chat"
  dialog.
- In case you are using more than one device, Broadcast Lists are currently not

>   synced between them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  synced between them.
- Messages sent to broadcast lists are not encrypted.
```
Do you think we need a reasoning for this? (It's because encrypting would either mean that the recipients see each other's addresses or that lots of network traffic is used).

Author: I wrote a paragraph on it.

  specific area. If this is a privacy risk for you, this feature might not be
  for you. We are working on finding a decentralized alternative for Mapbox.
- On desktop, the OS typically can't determine your location. Instead you can
  right click on the map and describe a location, which is sent to the chat as
  a message, but also appears on the map.

### What does the experimental database encryption actually protect?

- Right now, the database encryption is still very experimental. Don't rely on
  it for protection, you should additionally use encryption of your operating
  system, if it provides any.
- The database encryption does not yet encrypt the blobs, only the rows and
  columns of the database. This more or less means that your messages are safe,
  but not your attachments.
- For iOS and Android, the encryption keys are stored in the system keychain.
  This means the encryption is as secure as the operating system it's running
  on.
- The Delta Chat desktop client doesn't offer database encryption yet, as there
  is no standard way to store the encryption keys on the different supported
  platforms.

> ### Why can I choose not to watch the Inbox?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Why can I choose to only watch the DeltaChat folder?
```

Author: For me, this would be a bad reason. Let's not start a discussion from our FAQ page^^

Author: Ah now I get it, the setting was renamed. Then it makes sense of course.

This is an experimental setting for some people who are experimenting with
server-side rules. Not all providers support this, but with some you can move
all mails with a "Chat-Version" header to the DeltaChat folder. Normally, this
would be done by the Delta Chat app.

> Watching the Inbox makes sense to turn off, if you have both:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling "Only Fetch from DeltaChat folder" makes sense if you have both:
```

(also, no comma before "if")

- enabled a server-side rule to move all messages with Chat-Version header to the DeltaChat folder, and
- have set the "Show classic emails" setting to "no, chats only".

> In this case, Delta Chat doesn't need to watch the Inbox.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, Delta Chat doesn't need to watch the Inbox, and it's enough to only watch the DeltaChat folder.
```

### How private are private apps?

- Private apps can not send data to the Internet, or download anything.
- A private app can only exchange data within a Delta Chat chat, with its
  copies on the devices of your chat partners. Other than that, it's completely
  isolated from the Internet.
- The privacy a private app offers is the privacy of your chat - as long as you
  trust the people you chat with, you can trust the private app as well.
- This also means: it can be a privacy risk to open private apps in chats where
  you don't trust the members - as you know it from e-mail attachments, where 
  you only open attachments from senders you trust, and not from spammers.

### Where can I get private apps?

- In general, there is no curated appstore and Delta Chat is not responsible
  for private apps or their content. Anyone can share private apps with each
  other without restrictions.
- You can find some example apps on [webxdc.org](https://webxdc.org).
- Many people write their own private apps and post them to [the Delta Chat
  forum](https://support.delta.chat/c/webxdc/20).

### How can I create my own private apps?

> - You can extend the [Hello World example app](https://github.com/webxdc/hello)

Reviewer 2: maybe add a point that private apps are just zipped html files under the hood, so if you know webdev (html/js/css) you can make them too

### How can I use audio/video calls with Delta Chat?

- To turn on audio/video calls, go to the "experimental features" section in
  the advanced settings and set a "videochat instance". This can be a [Jitsi
  Meet](https://meet.jit.si) or [BigBlueButton](https://bigbluebutton.org/)
  server, for example.
- To use the flagship Jitsi Meet instance, you can enter
  `https://meet.jit.si/$ROOM`.
- When you invite others to a call, it is opened in your browser/app at once.
  The others receive an e-mail with a link to your jitsi/BBB room. This way, it
  is also compatible if your chat partners don't use Delta Chat.

### What is a verified group? Why is it experimental? 

- A verified group is a chat that guarantees safety against an active
  attacker.  All Messages in a verified chat view are e2e-encrypted, and
  members can join by scanning a "QR invite code".  All members are thus 
  connected with each other through a chain of invites, which guarantee 
  cryptographic consistency against active network or provider attacks. 
  See [countermitm.readthedocs.io](https://countermitm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/new.html)
  for the R&D behind this feature. 

> - As of Dec 2019, a "verified group" remains an experimental feature.

Reviewer 2: maybe update the date?

  a message, but also appears on the map.

### What does the experimental database encryption actually protect?

- Right now, the database encryption is still very experimental. Don't rely on
  it for protection, you should additionally use encryption of your operating
  system, if it provides any.
- The database encryption does not yet encrypt the blobs, only the rows and
  columns of the database. This more or less means that your messages are safe,
  but not your attachments.
- For iOS and Android, the encryption keys are stored in the system keychain.
  This means the encryption is as secure as the operating system it's running
  on.
- The Delta Chat desktop client doesn't offer database encryption yet, as there
  is no standard way to store the encryption keys on the different supported
  platforms.

### Why can I choose to only watch the DeltaChat folder?

This is an experimental setting for some people who are experimenting with
server-side rules. Not all providers support this, but with some you can move
all mails with a "Chat-Version" header to the DeltaChat folder. Normally, this
would be done by the Delta Chat app.

> Enabling "Only Fetch from DeltaChat folder" makes sense if you have both:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enabling "Only Fetch from DeltaChat folder" makes sense if you have **both**:
```

DeltaChat folder", you should also disable "move chat messages to DeltaChat".
Otherwise, deleting messages or multi-device setups might not work properly.

## Private Apps / webxdc

> 

Reviewer 3: i think, when following the FAQ style, the very basic question "What are Private Apps?" is missing here.
